README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/helaili/hubot-github-tfs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/helaili/hubot-github-tfs)

# hubot-github-tfs

A Hubot script to integrate GitHub and Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS).
You can now automatically trigger a TFS build following a push on a pull request and get the build result back.

## Installation

- In hubot project repo, run:

`npm install hubot-github-tfs --save`

- Then add **hubot-github-tfs** to your `external-scripts.json`:

```json
[
  "hubot-github-tfs"
]
```

- Set the following environment variables in the shell where Hubot is running

| Variable | Required/Optional | Comments |
|----------|---------|----------|
|HUBOT_TFS_SERVER|required|Ip or DNS name of the TFS server|
|HUBOT_TFS_USERNAME|required|TFS username|
|HUBOT_TFS_PASSWORD|required|Password of the TFS user|
|HUBOT_TFS_GITHUB_PAT|optional|Personal Access Token of the GitHub user with repo:status permission. This will be used to update the pull request status.|
|HUBOT_TFS_PROTOCOL|optional|default to `https`|
|HUBOT_TFS_PORT|optional|default to `80` for `http` and `443` for `https`|
|HUBOT_TFS_URL_PREFIX|optional|default to `/`|
|HUBOT_TFS_WORKSTATION|optional|default to `hubot`|
|HUBOT_TFS_DOMAIN|optional|default to blank|
|HUBOT_TFS_DEFAULT_COLLECTION|optional|default to `defaultcollection`|

- Create a webhook on your GitHub repo for the *Push* event with the following URL :
```
http://<hubot_server>/hubot/github-tfs/build/<room>
```

- Create a webhook on TFS with the following URL so Hubot can receive the notification back
```
http://<hubot_server>/hubot/github-tfs/build-result/<room>
```

## Sample Interactions


#### Get some help

```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build help
**hubot**>>Here's what I can do with TFS builds :
tfs-build list builds for <project>
tfs-build list builds for <project> from <collection>
tfs-build queue <project> with def=<definition id>
tfs-build queue <project> from <collection> with def=<definition id> branch=<branch name>
tfs-build list definitions for <project>
tfs-build list definitions for <project> from <collection>
tfs-build rem all
tfs-build rem about <org>/<repo>
tfs-build forget about <org>/<repo>
tfs-build rem <org>/<repo> builds with <project>/<definition id>
tfs-build rem <org>/<repo> builds with <project>/<definition id> from <collection>
```

#### List builds
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build list builds for SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Build       | Status   | Result  | Branch             | Definition                   |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|20160407.2   |completed |succeeded|master              |SpidersFromMars on github.com |
|20160407.1   |completed |failed   |master              |SpidersFromMars on github.com |
|20160331.19  |completed |succeeded|master              |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.18  |completed |failed   |master              |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.17  |completed |succeeded|syntaxerror         |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.16  |completed |failed   |synataxerror        |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```

#### List build definitions for a project
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build list definitions for SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>> Found 1 results for SpidersFromMars in
**hubot**>>
--------------------------------------
| ID  | Name                         |
--------------------------------------
|1    |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
--------------------------------------
```

#### Remind me which build definition is used to automatically trigger the build of a repository
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build rem about OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>> OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars builds with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```

#### Automatically build in TFS following a push in GitHub
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build rem OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars builds with SpidersFromMars/1
**hubot**>> Saved build setting for SpidersFromMars. Now building with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```
*Note* : The build definition id ```1``` was retrieved with the ```list definitions``` command

Whenever a push happens on this repo, Hubot will comment in the room specified in the webhook URL and trigger the registered build.

```
**hubot**>> @helaili just pushed code on OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars/testTFS. Requesting a TFS build with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```

Commit message:

ntlm->basic auth, and more tests

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/helaili/hubot-github-tfs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/helaili/hubot-github-tfs)

# hubot-github-tfs

A Hubot script to integrate GitHub and Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS).
You can now automatically trigger a TFS build following a push on a pull request and get the build result back.

## Installation

- In hubot project repo, run:

`npm install hubot-github-tfs --save`

- Then add **hubot-github-tfs** to your `external-scripts.json`:

```json
[
  "hubot-github-tfs"
]
```

- Set the following environment variables in the shell where Hubot is running

| Variable | Required/Optional | Comments |
|----------|---------|----------|
|HUBOT_TFS_SERVER|required|Ip or DNS name of the TFS server|
|HUBOT_TFS_USERNAME|required|TFS username|
|HUBOT_TFS_PASSWORD|required|Password of the TFS user|
|HUBOT_TFS_GITHUB_PAT|optional|Personal Access Token of the GitHub user with repo:status permission. This will be used to update the pull request status.|
|HUBOT_TFS_PROTOCOL|optional|default to `https`|
|HUBOT_TFS_PORT|optional|default to `80` for `http` and `443` for `https`|
|HUBOT_TFS_URL_PREFIX|optional|default to `/`|
|HUBOT_TFS_DEFAULT_COLLECTION|optional|default to `defaultcollection`|

- Create a webhook on your GitHub repo for the *Push* event with the following URL :
```
http://<hubot_server>/hubot/github-tfs/build/<room>
```

- Create a webhook on TFS with the following URL so Hubot can receive the notification back
```
http://<hubot_server>/hubot/github-tfs/build-result/<room>
```

- Make sure the IIS server running TFS as basic authentication enabled. 

## Sample Interactions


#### Get some help

```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build help
**hubot**>>Here's what I can do with TFS builds :
tfs-build list builds for <project>
tfs-build list builds for <project> from <collection>
tfs-build queue <project> with def=<definition id>
tfs-build queue <project> from <collection> with def=<definition id> branch=<branch name>
tfs-build list definitions for <project>
tfs-build list definitions for <project> from <collection>
tfs-build rem all
tfs-build rem about <org>/<repo>
tfs-build forget about <org>/<repo>
tfs-build rem <org>/<repo> builds with <project>/<definition id>
tfs-build rem <org>/<repo> builds with <project>/<definition id> from <collection>
```

#### List builds
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build list builds for SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Build       | Status   | Result  | Branch             | Definition                   |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|20160407.2   |completed |succeeded|master              |SpidersFromMars on github.com |
|20160407.1   |completed |failed   |master              |SpidersFromMars on github.com |
|20160331.19  |completed |succeeded|master              |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.18  |completed |failed   |master              |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.17  |completed |succeeded|syntaxerror         |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
|20160331.16  |completed |failed   |synataxerror        |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```

#### List build definitions for a project
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build list definitions for SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>> Found 1 results for SpidersFromMars in
**hubot**>>
--------------------------------------
| ID  | Name                         |
--------------------------------------
|1    |SpidersFromMars on Octodemo   |
--------------------------------------
```

#### Remind me which build definition is used to automatically trigger the build of a repository
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build rem about OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars
**hubot**>> OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars builds with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```

#### Automatically build in TFS following a push in GitHub
```
**user1**>> hubot tfs-build rem OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars builds with SpidersFromMars/1
**hubot**>> Saved build setting for SpidersFromMars. Now building with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```
*Note* : The build definition id ```1``` was retrieved with the ```list definitions``` command

Whenever a push happens on this repo, Hubot will comment in the room specified in the webhook URL and trigger the registered build.

```
**hubot**>> @helaili just pushed code on OctoCheese/SpidersFromMars/testTFS. Requesting a TFS build with defaultcollection/SpidersFromMars/1
```
